# Artificial-intelligence-and-labor-market-Automation-and-skills
The analysis of the exploration of automatization risk in Russia and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).

Artificial Intelligence (AI), one of the most promising technologies being developed today, has potential applications in a wide range of industries and functions, offering the opportunity to increase productivity and create new jobs, as well as replacing people to reduce costs. This paper applies and tests a set of methods of exploring the influence of the automation on the labor market given a set of control variables and other factors. Using detailed data on vacancies, we estimate the average wage rates for occupations with high risk of automatization the probability of elimination of jobs due to the mass replacement of labor by machines or artificial intelligence. Our approach allows us to explore the relationship between the risk of automation and the average salary. The HeadHunter dataset was applied to shed light on the exploration of automatization risk in Russia and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). We conduct regression analysis for the detailed investigation of the relationships and document a significant decrease in wages of vacancies which are under the automatization risk over 2019-2021. The analysis shows that vacancies exposed to automation in the near future have, on average, a 12.9% lower wage level within a company and region than vacancies that are not considered to be exposed to automation. Specifically, this research will benefit companies with a job structure that is suitable for AI tend to change their skill requirements, with some jobs disappearing and others being created at the same time. Managers can use this data to analyze the points of possible application of artificial intelligence in their companies in terms of salary levels, whether it could be more effective and cheaper to replace some jobs with the introduction of AI, or decide on a partial introduction with a recalculation of the labor resources needed for the companies.
